# Exploratory Data Analysis on Solar Plant Generation System
## by Ayodele Ayodeji Fortunate

## Background Information on the Solar Plant Generation System

This data has been gathered at two solar power plants in India over a 34 day period. It has two pairs of files - each pair has one power generation dataset and one sensor readings dataset. The power generation datasets are gathered at the inverter level - each inverter has multiple lines of solar panels attached to it. The sensor data is gathered at a plant level - single array of sensors optimally placed at the plant. The data can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ef9660b4985471a8797501c8970009f36c5b3515213e2676cf40f540f0100e54)

**Variable names description**

DATE_TIME: Date and time for each observation and observations was recorded at 15 minute intervals. 3158
unique values

PLANT_ID: Id number for plant 1, this will be common for the entire data.

SOURCE_KEY: Source key in this file stands for the inverter id.

DC_POWER: Amount of DC power generated by the inverter (source_key) in this 15 minute interval. Units - kW.

AC_POWER: Amount of AC power generated by the inverter (source_key) in this 15 minute interval. Units - kW.

DAILY_YIELD: Daily yield is a cumulative sum of power generated on that day, till that point in time.

TOTAL_YIELD: This is the total yield for the inverter till that point in time.

AMBIENT_TEMPERATURE: This is the ambient temperature at the plant.

MODULE_TEMPERATURE: There's a module (solar panel) attached to the sensor panel. This is the temperature reading for that module.

IRRADIATION: Amount of irradiation for the 15 minute interval.

#### Software needed

- Anaconda (Jupiter notebook)

#### Make sure the following packages(libraries) are installed
- pandas
- numpy 
- matplotlib.pyplot 
- seaborn 
- datetime 
- matplotlib.dates 
- %matplotlib inline

## Project overview

Exploatory Data Analysis was performed using python programming language to analyse datasets obtaing from solar power plants. I analysed the data gathered from solar power plants to;

- Find relationships between different values
- Which factor affect solar power generation  and 
- use data to figure out need for rwepair, maintainance and replacement of equipments


Plant 1 contains 2 dataset, The power generation dataset gathered at the inverter level and The sensor data is gathered at a plant level. Plant 2 also contains 2 dataset, The power generation dataset gathered at the inverter level and The sensor data is gathered at a plant level. Both datasets from plant 1 and plant 2 were loaded in separate pandas DataFrames.

**With my analysis, I provided answers to the above asked questions**:

1. What is the mean value of daily yield
2. What is the average irradiation 
3. What is the maximum module and ambient temperature? How are they related 
4. How many inverters are present for each plants 
5. Which inverter generates maximum DC/AC power
6. How is module and ambient temperature affected by irradiation 
7. What is the efficiency of DC to AC conversion? Can this be used to find faulty inverters
8. Does DC to AC conversion varies for the different plants

## Questions for Analysis


## Summary of Findings

> The average value of daily yield was found to be 3295.97 KW for plant 1 and inverter with source key VHMLBKoKgIrUVDU has the highest average value of daily yield of 3407.26 KW. While for plant 2, average value of daily yield  was found to be 3294.89 KW and inverter with source key VHMLBKoKgIrUVDU has the highest average value of daily yield of 3407.26 KW.

> Compairing the average daily yield of Plant 1 and Plant 2 for 2020. There are no much difference between daily yield of solar plant 1 and plant 2. The average daily yield of plant 1 is 3295.97 KW while that of plant 2 is 3294.89 KW. The difference between the 2 plants is about 1.08 KW.

> I analysed the average irradiation by dividing the total irradiation by 34. The result of this gave the average irradiation for plant 1 to be 21.37 and plant 2 to be 22.31

> Based on my analysis, the ambient temperature for plant 1 and plant 2 was found to be  35.25 and 39.18 respectively. While that of module temperature for both plant 1 and 2 was found to be 65.55 and 66.64 respectively.

> Both plant has same number of inverters 22
> only inverter with source key(id) wCURE6d3bPkepu2 has the maximum dc power and ac power in plant 1. While only inverter with source key(id) ZoEaEvLYb1n2sOq has the maximum dc power and ac power in plant 2

> Correlation between module temperature and ambient temperature was found to be 0.853778 for plant 1 which indicate that there is a strong correlation between the two variables. Also for plant 2, The correlation between module temperature and ambient temperature was found to be 0.847273 which indicate that there is a strong correlation between the two variables.

> From my analysis and exploration, I found out that inverters with source id 1BY6WEcLGh8j5v7 and bvBOhCH3iADSZry are underperforming compared to other inverters, perharps these inverters require maintenance or require to be replaced. Same goes for the inverters in plant 2, here the inverters with source id Et9kgGMDl729KT4 and Quc1TzYxW2pYoWX are underperforming compared to other inverters, perharps these inverters require maintenance or require to be replaced also.

> I plotted the DC to AC conversion ratio values with time, I found out that the inverters in plant 2 are much more efficient at convertion than plant 1 which leads to huge losses in power generation at plant 1. Even though the total yield are compairable, thee is a huge discripancy in the DC power generated over the same period of time.